docs: add documentation for how to use and manage groups (#1843)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/how-to/how-to-create-and-manage-user-groups.md

---
title: How to create and manage user groups
---

> :::info availability User groups are available to Unleash Enterprise users since **Unleash 4.14**. :::

Author: Thank you! I just noticed this too when I went to add more screenshots

> This guide takes you through how use user groups to manage permissions on your projects. User groups allow you to manage large groups of users more easily than assigning roles directly to those users.

Reviewer: Nice! Can you add a link to the section on user groups in the reference docs here. Something like "refer to the section on user groups in the RBAC documentation for more information"?

Author: Good call! Done!

## Creating user groups

1. Navigate to groups by using the admin menu (the gear icon) and selecting the groups option.

> ![A visual representation of the current step: the Unleash Admin UI with the steps highlighted to navigate to groups.](/img/create-ug-step-1.png)

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the alt text on the images here. Starting every description with "a visual representation of the current step" is probably redundant. I think we should remove that bit, but am happy to discuss this if you think otherwise?

Author: Yes, I think that makes sense, I'll clean up the alt text a little here

Author: Looks much better, thanks for the suggestion, I've just removed the redundant text

2. Navigate to new group

> ![A visual representation of the current step: the groups screen with the new group button highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-2.png).

Reviewer: There's a few wayward periods here 👁️
```suggestion
![A visual representation of the current step: the groups screen with the new group button highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-2.png)
```

3. Give the group a name and an optional description and select the users you'd like to be in the group.

> ![A visual representation of the current step: the new group screen with the users drop down open and highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-3.png).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A visual representation of the current step: the new group screen with the users drop down open and highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-3.png)
```

> 4. Review the details of the group. Each group must contain at least one user with the Owner role, the owner(s) will have permissions to change group membership, so remember to include yourself if you want to manage this group later. If you're happy with the group details, click save. The group is now created.

Reviewer: The details about management and permissions should go in the reference guide, not the how-to guide.

```suggestion
4. Review the details of the group and save them if you're happy.
```

Author: Good call!

> ![A visual representation of the current step: the new group screen with the users selected and the save button highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-4.png).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A visual representation of the current step: the new group screen with the users selected and the save button highlighted.](/img/create-ug-step-4.png)
```

## Managing users within a group

> 1. Navigate to groups by using the admin menu (the gear icon) and selecting the groups option.

Reviewer: Some steps end in a full stop, while others don't. We should probably align on that, so that all steps do or do not end in full stops.

Author: The other guides in this folder seem to all terminate in periods, I think to keep it consistent across pages I'm going to do the same WDYT?

Reviewer: I agree!

Author: Awesome, done!

![A visual representation of the current step: the Unleash Admin UI with the steps highlighted to navigate to groups.](/img/create-ug-step-1.png)

> 2. Click the card of the group you want to edit, you can click anywhere on the card.

Reviewer: Hmm, how do non-sighted users know they're focusing on the card? What do keyboard users interact with? Also, try and avoid 'click X': not all users click. In this case, it could be 'select the card' or 'interact with the card', I suppose.

We haven't settled on a specific guide for writing accessible documents, but both MS and Google have good guides. Here's a section about alternative input methods from MS: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/accessibility/writing-all-abilities#document-alternate-input-methods.

![A visual representation of the current step: the manage groups with a pointer to a group card.](/img/edit-ug-step-2.png)

> 3. Remove users by clicking the bin icon.

Reviewer: 'The bin icon' doesn't mean anything to users who can't see it. What's the button say? 'Remove user'? That's what should go in this point instead or in addition.

Something like this-ish?

```suggestion
3. Remove users by using the remove user button (displayed as a bin).
```

![A visual representation of the current step: the manage group page with the remove user button highlighted.](/img/remove-user-from-group-step-1.png)

4. Confirm the remove

![A visual representation of the current step: the manage group page with the confirm user removal dialog shown.](/img/remove-user-from-group-step-2.png)

> 5. Add users by clicking the add button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add users by using the add button
```

![A visual representation of the current step: the groups page shown with the add user button highlighted.](/img/add-user-to-group-step-1.png)

> 6. Find the user you'd like to add to the group and click add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Find the user you'd like to add to the group and add them
```

![A visual representation of the current step: the groups page shown with a user selected.](/img/add-user-to-group-step-2.png)

> 7. Assign the user a role in the group, every group needs to have at least one owner, and click save

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Assign the user a role in the group and save the group. Remember that every group needs to have _at least_ one owner.
```

![A visual representation of the current step: the groups page shown with the user role highlighted.](/img/add-user-to-group-step-3.png)

## Assigning groups to projects

> 1. Click projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to projects
```

![A visual representation of the current step: the landing page with the projects navigation link highlighted.](/img/add-group-to-project-step-1.png)

2. Select the project you want to manage

![A visual representation of the current step: the projects page with a project highlighted.](/img/add-group-to-project-step-2.png)

> 3. Click the access tab and then click assign user/group (note that this is only for enterprise, otherwise this button will be called "assign user")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to the access tab and then use the assign user/group button.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to stress the enterprise-only aspect here. There's already so much other stuff that's only enterprise for this guide, isn't there?

Author: Yes that makes sense!

![A visual representation of the current step: steps to access.](/img/add-group-to-project-step-3.png)

4. Find your group in the drop down

> 5. Select the role that the group should have in this project, this role will be passed transitively to users in that group. You can review the list of permissions that the group users will gain by having this role. Note that groups never reduce permissions, so if the user is present in another group and that group has a role on the same project, the user may have more permissions than seen in the side pane.

Reviewer: Can we remove the details here? This is a how-to guide, not a reference document. Technical details should go in the reference docs, not the how-to guide.

Something like

```suggestion
5. Select the role that the group should have in this project. You can review the list of permissions that the group users will gain by having this role before confirming.
```

Author: I like it
